---
layout: post
title: 'reading 01: to hack or not to hack'
date: 2024-08-29 5:00:00-0500
description: the idea of a hacker
tags: ethics
categories: hackers
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: false
---

I have come to believe that a "true hacker" is an artist of sorts.

"More than a competition, the ultimate bumming of the decimal print routine became a sort of hacker Holy Grail. ... People would work for hours, seeking a way to do the same thing in fewer lines of code. It became more than a competition; it was a quest." (levy, ch. 2)

"We did it twenty-five to thirty percent for the sake of doing it because it was something we could do and do well, and sixty percent for the sake of having something which was in its metaphorical way alive, our offspring, which would do things on its own when we were finished." (samson, ch. 2)

It's as if they believed monetary payment would tarnish their beautiful work.

"Greenblatt would often accompany Beeler to the 1620, where you would punch up your card deck, and stand in line. When your turn came, you’d dump your cards in the reader and get an instant printout from a plotter-printer. “It was sort of a fun, evening thing to do,” Beeler would later recall. “We’d do it the way others might watch a sports game, or go out and have a beer.” It was limited but gratifying." (ch. 4)

"It was common, if you wanted to do a task on a machine and the machine didn’t have the software to do it, to write the proper software so you could do it. This was an impulse that Greenblatt would later elevate to an art form." (ch. 4)

"Gosper was thin, with bird-like features covered by thick spectacles and an unruly head of kinky brown hair. But even a brief meeting with Gosper was enough to convince you that here was someone whose brilliance put things like physical appearance into their properly trivial perspective." (ch. 4)

"the rush of having this live keyboard under you and having this machine respond in milliseconds to what you were doing ..." (gosper, ch. 4)

"The Right Thing very specifically meant the unique, correct, elegant solution . . . the thing that satisfied all the constraints at the same time, which everyone seemed to believe existed for most problems." (gosper, ch. 4)

"To a hacker, a closed door is an insult, and a locked door is an outrage" (ch. 5)

"[Van Gogh] experienced more financial difficulties than financial success." (<a href="https://www.sarahransomeart.com/blog/how-wealthy-was-vincent-van-gogh">Sarah Ransome</a>)

<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Doors_of_the_Florence_Baptistery">North Doors of the Florence Baptistery</a>
